# IITB_systems_assignments
this repo is a collection of all the assignments given in the course CS744 (Design and Engineering of Computing Systems)

Assignment 1 : Create a shell on your own

Assignment 2 : Client-Server app

The Key-value Server was load tested by increasing the no. of threads
linearly and running the client(load generator) for 5 minutes(300 secs.)
Namely, the Throughput and Average Response time of the continueous
stream of requests generated by the load generator were taken. The ex-
periment was performed on desktops in SL3. The results showed that the
Throughput kept on increasing till the server was not saturated. Once the
server was saturated, the throughput also saturated. The Response time
was static till the point the server hit saturation, after that the response
time kept on increasing almost exponentially.


Setting up the Key-Value Server:
* The server is a multithreaded server. I've taken a 100 worker threads at the
server side. Which means not more than 100 client requests can be handled at
a time.
* The server was pinned to a single processor using the taskset command on
one of the machines of SL3 :-
taskset 0x1 ./server (server-ip) (server-port)


Setting up the Client(load generator)
The client was run on another machine using the following command :-
./client (server-ip) (server-port) (time in seconds to be run) (no. of
threads to be run)
* The load generator spawns multiple threads(which act as individual clients)
which can be specied by us in the cmd-line args.
* The requests were of 4 types:-
1. create :- to create/insert a new entry in the Key-value store.
2. read :- to read an existing entry in the key value store.
3. update :- to update an existing entry in the key value store.
4. delete :- to delete an entry in the key value store.
* I randomly generated keys between 1 and 10000 for each request.
* I sent create, read, delete and update requests 100 times each in that order
and kept on looping over these 400 requests(i.e. 100 create, 100 read, 100 delete
and 100 update). for each client(load gen.) thread.


Results :
* The time to run this simulation was given by the user through command line
and the load generator was run.
* Total no. of requests and total response time were tracked via global counter
variables.
* Throughput = Total No. of requests / time given by the user
Avg. Response Time = sum of time taken for all requests / no. of
requests


